# About

This is a terraform module that provisions an haproxy load balancer for a patroni cluster.

It is dependent on a dns server to resolve member of the patroni cluster.

Also, while it doesn't handle tls termination for postgres traffic, it requires valid client tls credentials to perform health checks on the patroni api to determine the master.

# Usage

## Variables

This module takes the following variables as input:

- **name**: Name to give to the vm. Will be the hostname as well.
- **vcpus**: Number of vcpus to assign to the vm. Defaults to 2.
- **memory**: Amount of memory in MiB to assign to the vm. Defaults to 8192.
- **volume_id**: Id of the image volume to attach to the vm. A recent version of ubuntu is recommended as this is what this module has been validated against.
- **libvirt_network**: Parameters to connect to a libvirt network if you opt for that instead of macvtap interfaces. In has the following keys:
  - **ip**: Ip of the vm.
  - **mac**: Mac address of the vm. If none is passed, a random one will be generated.
  - **network_id**: Id (ie, uuid) of the libvirt network to connect to (in which case **network_name** should be an empty string).
  - **network_name**: Name of the libvirt network to connect to (in which case **network_id** should be an empty string).
- **macvtap_interfaces**: List of macvtap interfaces to connect the vm to if you opt for macvtap interfaces instead of a libvirt network. Note that the first interface in the list will be used to advertise the patroni rest api. Each entry in the list is a map with the following keys:
  - **interface**: Host network interface that you plan to connect your macvtap interface with.
  - **prefix_length**: Length of the network prefix for the network the interface will be connected to. For a **192.168.1.0/24** for example, this would be **24**.
  - **ip**: Ip associated with the macvtap interface. 
  - **mac**: Mac address associated with the macvtap interface
  - **gateway**: Ip of the network's gateway for the network the interface will be connected to.
  - **dns_servers**: Dns servers for the network the interface will be connected to. If there aren't dns servers setup for the network your vm will connect to, the ip of external dns servers accessible accessible from the network will work as well.
- **cloud_init_volume_pool**: Name of the volume pool that will contain the cloud-init volume of the vm.
- **cloud_init_volume_name**: Name of the cloud-init volume that will be generated by the module for your vm. If left empty, it will default to **<name>-cloud-init.iso**.
- **ssh_admin_user**: Username of the default sudo user in the image. Defaults to **ubuntu**.
- **admin_user_password**: Optional password for the default sudo user of the image. Note that this will not enable ssh password connections, but it will allow you to log into the vm from the host using the **virsh console** command.
- **ssh_admin_public_key**: Public part of the ssh key the admin will be able to login as
- **haproxy**: Haproxy configuration. Takes the following keys:
  - **postgres_nodes_max_count**: Maximum expected number of postgres nodes
  - **postgres_nameserver_ips**: List of nameserver ips that will resolve the domain name of the postgres nodes.
  - **postgres_domain**: Domain name that will resolve to the postgres nodes.
  - **patroni_client**: Configuration to generate the tls client certificate that haproxy will use to authentication against the patroni api. Takes the following keys:
    - **ca_key**: Private key of the ca that will generate the client certificate.
    - **ca_certificate**: Public key of the ca that will generate the client certificate.
    - **certificate_validity_period**: How long the client certificate should last in hours.
    - **certificate_early_renewal_period**: Period (in hours) before the client certificate's expiry when terraform should try to renew the certificate.
  - **timeouts**: Various timeouts for haproxy. It has the following keys:
    - **connect**: Timeout to establish a new connection
    - **check**: Timeout on the checks that determine which patroni node is master
    - **idle**: Timeout on iddle connections, either between haproxy and the client or between haproxy and a postgres backend
- **chrony**: Optional chrony configuration for when you need a more fine-grained ntp setup on your vm. It is an object with the following fields:
  - **enabled**: If set the false (the default), chrony will not be installed and the vm ntp settings will be left to default.
  - **servers**: List of ntp servers to sync from with each entry containing two properties, **url** and **options** (see: https://chrony.tuxfamily.org/doc/4.2/chrony.conf.html#server)
  - **pools**: A list of ntp server pools to sync from with each entry containing two properties, **url** and **options** (see: https://chrony.tuxfamily.org/doc/4.2/chrony.conf.html#pool)
  - **makestep**: An object containing remedial instructions if the clock of the vm is significantly out of sync at startup. It is an object containing two properties, **threshold** and **limit** (see: https://chrony.tuxfamily.org/doc/4.2/chrony.conf.html#makestep)
- **fluentd**: Optional fluend configuration to securely route logs to a fluend node using the forward plugin. It has the following keys:
  - **enabled**: If set the false (the default), fluentd will not be installed.
  - **load_balancer_tag**: Tag to assign to logs coming from haproxy
  - **node_exporter_tag** Tag to assign to logs coming from the prometheus node exporter
  - **forward**: Configuration for the forward plugin that will talk to the external fluend node. It has the following keys:
    - **domain**: Ip or domain name of the remote fluend node.
    - **port**: Port the remote fluend node listens on
    - **hostname**: Unique hostname identifier for the vm
    - **shared_key**: Secret shared key with the remote fluentd node to authentify the client
    - **ca_cert**: CA certificate that signed the remote fluentd node's server certificate (used to authentify it)
  - **buffer**: Configuration for the buffering of outgoing fluentd traffic
    - **customized**: Set to false to use the default buffering configurations. If you wish to customize it, set this to true.
    - **custom_value**: Custom buffering configuration to provide that will override the default one. Should be valid fluentd configuration syntax, including the opening and closing ```<buffer>``` tags.
- **container_registry**: Parameters to get haproxy image from a custom container registry with username/password authentication. It has the following parameters:
  - **url**: Url of the registry (with the http protocol)
  - **username**: Username you want to connect to the registry as
  - **password**: Password of the user
- **install_dependencies**: Whether cloud-init should install external dependencies (should be set to false if you already provide an image with the external dependencies built-in).

## Example

Below is a local code snipped used to validate the module:

```
resource "libvirt_volume" "postgres_lb_1" {
  name             = "postgres-lb-1"
  pool             = "default"
  // 10 GiB
  size             = 10 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024
  base_volume_pool = "os"
  base_volume_name = "ubuntu-focal-2021-04-29"
  format           = "qcow2"
}

module "postgres_lb_1" {
  source = "./kvm-postgres-load-balancer"
  name = "postgres-lb-1"
  vcpus = 1
  memory = 4096
  volume_id = libvirt_volume.postgres_lb_1.id
  libvirt_network = {
    network_id = "b10c1bda-f608-4780-9cfb-574c2271a193"
    ip = "192.168.122.162"
    mac = "52:54:00:DE:E3:6B"
  }
  cloud_init_volume_pool = "default"
  ssh_admin_public_key = tls_private_key.admin_ssh.public_key_openssh
  admin_user_password = "mockpass"
  haproxy = {
    postgres_nodes_max_count   = 3
    postgres_nameserver_ips    = ["192.168.122.161"]
    postgres_domain            = "server.postgres.local"
    patroni_client             = {
      ca_key                           = module.postgres_ca.key
      ca_certificate                   = module.postgres_ca.certificate
      certificate_validity_period      = 100*365*24
      certificate_early_renewal_period = 365*24
    }
  }
}
```